This document outlines the standard operating procedures (SOP) for provisioning, starting, and gracefully tearing down the Highly Available (HA) Enterprise Cluster.

PREREQUISITES
Before running this project, ensure the following dependencies are installed on your local host machine:

VirtualBox (Hypervisor for running the virtual machines)

Vagrant (For automating the hardware provisioning)

Ansible (For configuration management and application deployment)

Git (For cloning this repository)

PHASE 1: SPINNING UP THE INFRASTRUCTURE

Step 1: Clone the Repository
Download the project files to your local machine and navigate into the directory:

git clone https://github.com/Jagannath0246/Enterprise-Infrastructure-Monitoring-NOC-High-Availability-Cluster-.git
cd Enterprise-Infrastructure-Monitoring-NOC-High-Availability-Cluster

(Note: Replace YOUR_USERNAME and YOUR_REPO_NAME with your actual GitHub details).

Step 2: Provision the Hardware (Vagrant)
Boot up the 5 virtual machines. Vagrant will automatically assign the static IPs defined in the Vagrantfile and configure the private NAT network.

vagrant up

(Allow 3-5 minutes for all nodes to fully boot and acquire networking).

Step 3: Execute Configuration Management (Ansible)
Once the hardware is online, use Ansible to configure the operating systems, install the software, and establish the networking rules. Run these playbooks in the following exact order:

Deploy the Load Balancer and Web Fleet:
ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini deploy_fleet.yml

Provision the Database Tier:
ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini setup_db.yml

Deploy the Dynamic PHP Application:
ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini deploy_php_app.yml

Step 4: Verify the Deployment
To mathematically prove the load balancer is working, bypass your browser cache and run this loop in your terminal:

for i in {1..6}; do curl -s http://192.168.56.10 | grep "Node"; done

You should see the output successfully alternating between web1, web2, and web3.

PHASE 2: STOPPING AND TEARING DOWN

To conserve your host machine's CPU and RAM, you should stop the cluster when not actively running tests. You have two options depending on your needs.

Option A: Graceful Shutdown (Sleep Mode)
Use this option if you want to turn off the VMs but keep all your databases, files, and configurations intact for the next time you work on the project.

vagrant halt

To wake the cluster back up later, simply run "vagrant up" again.

Option B: The Clean Slate (Nuclear Teardown)
Use this option to permanently delete the virtual machines and free up hard drive space. This destroys the virtual hard disks and unregisters the VMs from VirtualBox.

vagrant destroy -f

Since this infrastructure is fully defined as code, you can completely rebuild the cluster from scratch anytime by returning to Phase 1.

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR CONTRIBUTORS
Never commit the hidden .vagrant/ directory or any .vdi / .vmdk files to version control, as they contain heavy machine states and local SSH keys.